README.md, before:


# performance-testing-template

This repository can be used by teams who are in need of a performance test suite. 

The performance-testing-template.g8 is developed and tested using:
* Java 1.8
* Scala 2.12.11
* sbt 1.3.12
* giter8 0.11.0-M3


## Support
This repository is supported by HMRC Digital's Test Community. If you have a query or find an issue please drop in to the #community-testing channel in Slack.

## Contributions
If you'd like to contribute we welcome you to raise a PR or issue against the project and notify one of the core maintainers in #community-testing.

## Generating a Performance Test project
You **DO NOT** need to clone this project to generate a performance test project from the template. You simply need to have giter8 installed, and run the `g8` command below.

### [Install giter8 CLI](#install-giterate) 
You will need to have giter8 installed in order to generate a test suite from the performance-testing-template. Due to some limitations with the SBT giter8 plugin, unfortunately this template will not generate successfully. 

Instructions to install giter8 can be found [here](http://www.foundweekends.org/giter8/setup.html).

### Generating a Performance Test project from master
To generate a test suite, execute the following command in the parent directory of where you'd like your Performance Test project created:
    
    g8 hmrc/performance-testing-template.g8

This will prompt you for:
- **name** -> The name of the performance test repository.  I.e. my-digital-service-performance-tests

To execute the example tests, follow the steps in the project README.md

### A Note on the Example Requests
The example tests created by this template use the vat-flat-rate-calculator-frontend as an example service.  They are provided to show how to quickly get up and running using the performance testing template. These tests depend on the services in the `PLATFORM_EXAMPLE_UI_TESTS` being available:

    ASSETS_FRONTEND
    KEYSTORE
    CONTACT_FRONTEND
    VAT_FLAT_RATE_CALC_FRONTEND

## Development
If you'd like to contribute to the performance-testing-template you'll need to test your changes before raising a PR (see below).  

### Generating a Performance Test project from you local changes
To create a test project from your local changes, execute the following command from the parent directory of your local copy of the template:

    g8 file://performance-testing-template.g8/ --name=my-test-project

This will create a new performance test project in a folder named `my-test-project/`.  
 
### Running the performance-testing-template.g8 tests
There are test scripts (written in bash) in the `tests/` folder which can run performance tests against the different test-environments.  To successfully run the tests you will need to satisfy the following pre-requisites: 

- [Install Giterate CLI](#install-giterate)
- Install and configure [Service Manager](https://github.com/hmrc/service-manager) (see Confluence)
- Install Mongo (see Confluence)

Copy `tests/test-performance-testing-template.sh` to the parent directory of your local copy of the performance-testing-template.g8 project.  Execute the script without params:

    ./test-performance-testing-template.sh

**Note:** At present these tests create different types of projects off the template, and run the performance tests off those projects.  No assertions are made to ensure that the test ran and passed, you will have to consult the logs to ensure that the tests ran successfully.

#### Testing in CI
The bash script [test-in-ci.sh](test-in-ci.sh) is used to test the performance-testing-template.g8 template
in a pipeline via a PR builder before merging changes to master. The script generates a new repository for the
provided template type, and runs a smoke performance test.

```
./test-in-ci.sh
```

This script can be also used to run locally in an engineer's machine but it does not provide the necessary set up by default.
Use [test-performance-testing-template.sh](src/test/test-performance-testing-template.sh) instead.

### Scalafmt
The generated template has already been formatted using scalafmt as well as containing a `.scalafmt.conf` configuration and sbt scalafmt plugin ready for teams to use. 

Currently formatting the files to include in a generated project is a manual task. This involves generating a new template from this project, formatting the generated files and then updating this repository to reflect the new formatting.

Commit message:

PLATUI-888: Refactored script to support testing both in CI and in local environment. Removed existing test script at src/test/test-performance-testing-template.sh Updated README.md to reflect the changes.

README.md, after:


# performance-testing-template

This repository can be used by teams who are in need of a performance test suite. 

The performance-testing-template.g8 is developed and tested using:
* Java 1.8
* Scala 2.12.11
* sbt 1.3.12
* giter8 0.11.0-M3


## Support
This repository is supported by HMRC Digital's Test Community. If you have a query or find an issue please drop in to the #community-testing channel in Slack.

## Contributions
If you'd like to contribute we welcome you to raise a PR or issue against the project and notify one of the core maintainers in #community-testing.

## Generating a Performance Test project
You **DO NOT** need to clone this project to generate a performance test project from the template. You simply need to have giter8 installed, and run the `g8` command below.

### [Install giter8 CLI](#install-giterate) 
You will need to have giter8 installed in order to generate a test suite from the performance-testing-template. Due to some limitations with the SBT giter8 plugin, unfortunately this template will not generate successfully. 

Instructions to install giter8 can be found [here](http://www.foundweekends.org/giter8/setup.html).

### Generating a Performance Test project from master
To generate a test suite, execute the following command in the parent directory of where you'd like your Performance Test project created:
    
    g8 hmrc/performance-testing-template.g8

This will prompt you for:
- **name** -> The name of the performance test repository.  I.e. my-digital-service-performance-tests

To execute the example tests, follow the steps in the project README.md

### A Note on the Example Requests
The example tests created by this template use the vat-flat-rate-calculator-frontend as an example service.  They are provided to show how to quickly get up and running using the performance testing template. These tests depend on the services in the `PLATFORM_EXAMPLE_UI_TESTS` being available:

    ASSETS_FRONTEND
    KEYSTORE
    CONTACT_FRONTEND
    VAT_FLAT_RATE_CALC_FRONTEND

## Development
To contribute to the performance-testing-template you'll need to test your changes locally before raising a PR (see below).  

### Generating a Performance Test project from you local changes
To create a test project from your local changes, execute the following command from the parent directory of your local copy of the template:

    g8 file://performance-testing-template.g8/ --name=my-test-project

This will create a new performance test project in a folder named `my-test-project/`.  
 
### Running the performance-testing-template.g8 tests
A shell script is available to generate a repository from the template and run a smoke test 
from the newly created repository. Steps to run this script are documented here:
[./test-performance-testing-template.sh](test-performance-testing-template.sh)

**Note:** The script does not include any assertions to ensure that the tests are passing. You will have to consult the 
output to ensure that the tests ran successfully.

#### Testing in CI
In CI, [./test-performance-testing-template.sh](test-performance-testing-template.sh) is used to test the 
performance-testing-template.g8 template in a pipeline via a PR builder before merging changes to master. 

### Scalafmt
The generated template has already been formatted using scalafmt as well as containing a `.scalafmt.conf` configuration and sbt scalafmt plugin ready for teams to use. 

Currently formatting the files to include in a generated project is a manual task. This involves generating a new template from this project, formatting the generated files and then updating this repository to reflect the new formatting.
