src/main/g8/README.md, before:

**This is a template README.md.  Be sure to update this with project specific content that describes your performance test project.**

# $name$
Performance test suite for the `<digital service name>`, using [performance-test-runner](https://github.com/hmrc/performance-test-runner) under the hood.


## Running the tests

Prior to executing the tests ensure you have:

* Docker - to start mongo container
* Installed/configured service manager

Run the following command to start the services locally:
```
docker run --rm -d --name mongo -d -p 27017:27017 mongo:3.6

sm --start PLATFORM_EXAMPLE_UI_TESTS -r --wait 100
```

Using the `--wait 100` argument ensures a health check is run on all the services started as part of the profile. `100` refers to the given number of seconds to wait for services to pass health checks.

## Logging

The template uses [logback.xml](src/test/resources) to configure log levels. The default log level is *WARN*. This can be updated to use a lower level for example *TRACE* to view the requests sent and responses received during the test.

#### Smoke test

It might be useful to try the journey with one user to check that everything works fine before running the full performance test
```
sbt -Dperftest.runSmokeTest=true -DrunLocal=true gatling:test
```

#### Running the performance test
```
sbt -DrunLocal=true gatling:test
```
### Run the example test against staging environment

#### Smoke test
```
sbt -Dperftest.runSmokeTest=true -DrunLocal=false gatling:test
```

#### Run the performance test

To run a full performance test against staging environment, implement a job builder and run the test **only** from Jenkins.

### Scalafmt
 This repository uses [Scalafmt](https://scalameta.org/scalafmt/), a code formatter for Scala. The formatting rules configured for this repository are defined within [.scalafmt.conf](.scalafmt.conf).
 
 To apply formatting to this repository using the configured rules in [.scalafmt.conf](.scalafmt.conf) execute:
 
 ```
 sbt scalafmtAll
 ```
 
 To check files have been formatted as expected execute:
 
 ```
 sbt scalafmtCheckAll scalafmtSbtCheck
 ```

[Visit the official Scalafmt documentation to view a complete list of tasks which can be run.](https://scalameta.org/scalafmt/docs/installation.html#task-keys)

Commit message:

PLATUI-992 - Adding information about the PauseBuilder to the README with a link to further gatling documentation

src/main/g8/README.md, after:

**This is a template README.md.  Be sure to update this with project specific content that describes your performance test project.**

# $name$
Performance test suite for the `<digital service name>`, using [performance-test-runner](https://github.com/hmrc/performance-test-runner) under the hood.


## Running the tests

Prior to executing the tests ensure you have:

* Docker - to start mongo container
* Installed/configured service manager

Run the following command to start the services locally:
```
docker run --rm -d --name mongo -d -p 27017:27017 mongo:3.6

sm --start PLATFORM_EXAMPLE_UI_TESTS -r --wait 100
```

Using the `--wait 100` argument ensures a health check is run on all the services started as part of the profile. `100` refers to the given number of seconds to wait for services to pass health checks.

## Logging

The template uses [logback.xml](src/test/resources) to configure log levels. The default log level is *WARN*. This can be updated to use a lower level for example *TRACE* to view the requests sent and responses received during the test.

#### Smoke test

It might be useful to try the journey with one user to check that everything works fine before running the full performance test
```
sbt -Dperftest.runSmokeTest=true -DrunLocal=true gatling:test
```

#### Running the performance test
```
sbt -DrunLocal=true gatling:test
```
### Run the example test against staging environment

#### Smoke test
```
sbt -Dperftest.runSmokeTest=true -DrunLocal=false gatling:test
```

#### Run the performance test

To run a full performance test against staging environment, implement a job builder and run the test **only** from Jenkins.

### Gatling - PauseBuilder
Sometimes you might wish to `pause` before or after requests in order to simulate the behaviour of a "user"
thinking before taking their next action. [ExampleSimulation](src/test/scala/uk/gov/hmrc/perftests/example/ExampleSimulation.scala) 
demonstrates a simple example of introducing a pause before a request, set for a fixed pause duration.

To view further information on `pause` including using fixed pause and uniform random pause durations,
please visit the [Gatling documentation](https://gatling.io/docs/current/general/scenario/#scenario-pause).

### Scalafmt
 This repository uses [Scalafmt](https://scalameta.org/scalafmt/), a code formatter for Scala. The formatting rules configured for this repository are defined within [.scalafmt.conf](.scalafmt.conf).
 
 To apply formatting to this repository using the configured rules in [.scalafmt.conf](.scalafmt.conf) execute:
 
 ```
 sbt scalafmtAll
 ```
 
 To check files have been formatted as expected execute:
 
 ```
 sbt scalafmtCheckAll scalafmtSbtCheck
 ```

[Visit the official Scalafmt documentation to view a complete list of tasks which can be run.](https://scalameta.org/scalafmt/docs/installation.html#task-keys)
